# Preface





## Overview of the athenaCL System

The athenaCL system is a software tool for creating musical structures. Music is
rendered as a polyphonic event list, or an EventSequence object. This
EventSequence can be converted into diverse forms, or OutputFormats, including
scores for the Csound synthesis language, Musical Instrument Digital Interface
(MIDI) files, and other specialized formats. Within athenaCL, Orchestra and
Instrument models provide control of and integration with diverse
OutputFormats. Orchestra models may include complete specification, at the code
level, of external sound sources that are created in the process of OutputFormat
generation.
      
The athenaCL system features specialized objects for creating and manipulating
pitch structures, including the Pitch, the Multiset (a collection of Pitches),
and the Path (a collection of Multisets). Paths define reusable pitch
groups. When used as a compositional resource, a Path is interpreted by a
Texture object (described below).
      
The athenaCL system features three levels of algorithmic design. The first two
levels are provided by the ParameterObject and the Texture. The ParameterObject
is a model of a low-level one-dimensional parameter generator and
transformer. The Texture is a model of a multi-dimensional generative musical
part. A Texture is controlled and configured by numerous embedded
ParameterObjects. Each ParameterObject is assigned to either event parameters,
such as amplitude and rhythm, or Texture configuration parameters. The Texture
interprets ParameterObject values to create EventSequences. The number of
ParameterObjects in a Texture, as well as their function and interaction, is
determined by the Texture's parent type (TextureModule) and Instrument
model. Each Texture is an instance of a TextureModule. TextureModules encode
diverse approaches to multi-dimensional algorithmic generation. The
TextureModule manages the deployment and interaction of lower level
ParameterObjects, as well as linear or non-linear event generation. Specialized
TextureModules may be designed to create a wide variety of musical structures.
      
The third layer of algorithmic design is provided by the Clone, a model of the
multi-dimensional transformative part. The Clone transforms EventSequences
generated by a Texture. Similar to Textures, Clones are controlled and
configured by numerous embedded ParameterObjects.
      
Each Texture and Clone creates a collection of Events. Each Event is a rich data
representation that includes detailed timing, pitch, rhythm, and parameter
data. Events are stored in EventSequence objects. The collection all Texture and
Clone EventSequences is the complete output of athenaCL. These EventSequences
are transformed into various OutputFormats for compositional deployment.
      
For general information on computer aided algorithmic composition and generative
music systems, see the resources listed here and in (Ariza [AN#969], [AN#1940]).
      
The athenaCL system has been under development since June 2000. The software is
cross platform, developed under an open-source license, and programmed in the
Python language. An interactive command-line interface provides an easy-to-use
environment for beginners and a quick reference for advanced users. The complete
functionality of the system is alternatively available as a scriptable batch
processor or as a programmable Python extension library.
      



## Getting Started and Advanced Work

To learn the athenaCL system, many basic concepts of the system design and
command interface must be examined in depth. The tutorials included in this
document provide an overview to all essential concepts. Following the tutorials
are appendices, providing documentation useful for reference. Much of this
reference documentation is also available from within athenaCL.
      
All users should read and to gain familiarity with the interface and basic
athenaCL concepts. Basic composition tools are covered in , , and . For more
detailed information on organizing pitch structures, see .
      
Users with experience with Python and/or other generative music systems, or
users who have mastered the athenaCL interactive command-line interface, will
likely want to begin storing athenaCL command scripts in Python code files. This
approach provides a wide range of opportunities for programmatically extending
the power of athenaCL. A common approach for advanced usage of athenaCL is to
use the interactive command-line interface for reference and sketching, and then
store series of commands or command-generating procedures in Python files. The
section provides basic examples for this approach. Additional, over 30
demonstration Python scripts are distributed with athenaCL and included in .
      



## More Information

This document does not offer a complete description of the history, context, and
internal structure of the athenaCL system; such a description, including
comparative analysis to related historical and contemporary systems and detailed
explanation of object models and interactions, is provided in the text An Open
Design for Computer-Aided Algorithmic Music Composition: athenaCL (Ariza 2005
[AN#900]). Numerous additional articles are available that explore aspects of
the athenaCL system in detail (Ariza 2002 [AN#5], 2003 [AN#425], 2004 [AN#443],
2005 [AN#613], 2006 [AN#1343], 2007 [AN#1355], 2007 [AN#1617], 2008 [AN#1824],
2009 [AN#1990]).
      



## Conventions Used in This Manual

The following typographical conventions are used throughout this book: Constant
width Used for athenaCL text output as transcribed in examples. This is what the
program displays to the user.  Constant width bold

Used for user text input as transcribed in examples. This is what the user
enters into the program.
      



## Production of This Manual

The first edition of the athenaCL Tutorial Manual was released in August of 2001
and covered athenaCL versions 1.0 to 1.3. The second edition was released in
June 2005 and covers athenaCL versions 1.4 and beyond. The third edition was
released in July 2010 and convers athenaCL versions 2.0.
      
This manual is constructed and maintained with the help of various open-source
tools: DocBook, the Modular DocBook Stylesheet distribution, OpenJade, Python,
and ImageMagick.
      
