## Path Linking and Pitch Formation Redundancy

Textures link to Paths. Said another way, a Texture contains a reference to a Path object stored in the AthenaObject. Numerous Textures can thus share the same Path; further, if a change is made to this Path, all Textures will reference the newly updated version of the Path.
      
Events generated by a Texture can derive pitch values from a sequence of many transformations. These transformations allow the user to work with Pitch materials in a wide variety of orientations and parametric specifications. One or more Textures may share a single Path to derive pitch class or pitch space pitch values. Each Texture has independent ParameterObject control of a local transposition (local field) and a local register position (local octave), and with most TextureModules this control can be configured to be applied once per event or once per Path set. Finally, each Texture has a modular Temperament object to provide microtonal and dynamic final pitch tuning. Ultimately, the TextureModule is responsible for interpreting this final pitch value into a linear, horizontal, or other event arrangement.
      
For example, a Texture may be linked to simple Path consisting of a single pitch. This pitch will serve as a referential pitch value for all pitch generation and transformation within the Texture. The Texture's local field and local octave controls could then be used to produce a diverse collection of Pitch values. Changing the single pitch of the Path would then provide global transposition of Texture-based pitch processes. Alternatively, a Path may specify a complex sequence of chord changes. Numerous Textures, linked to this single Path, could each apply different local octave settings to distinguish register, and could each apply different microtonal tunings with local field and Temperament settings. 
      
